[DOC-332] Added new TA for Replicated EOL (#22221)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/releases/techadvisories/ta-reol-24.md

---
title: TA-REOL-24
headerTitle: Replicated End of Life
headcontent: 30 Apr 2024
type: docs
showRightNav: true
cascade:
  unversioned: true
menu:
  preview_releases:
    identifier: ta-reol-24
    weight: 1
rightNav:
  hideH2: true
type: docs
---

|          Product           |  Affected Versions   | Fixed In |
| :------------------------- | :------------------ | :------- |
| {{<product "yba">}}  | {{<release "all">}} | {{<release "2.18, 2.20+">}}      |

## Critical Considerations

> A YugabyteDB Anywhere (YBA) Installer license must be acquired prior to attempting any migration. Please contact {{% support-platform %}} for a license request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Obtain a YugabyteDB Anywhere (YBA) Installer license before attempting any migration. Contact {{% support-platform %}} to request a license.
```

## Description

YugabyteDB Anywhere will end support for Replicated installation at the end of 2024.
This means updates will no longer be available, preventing YBA and YugabyteDB database upgrades, in perpetuity.

## Mitigation

> Following are detailed upgrade schedules you should reference when planning your migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migrate your YBA installation from Replicated by performing the following steps:
```

1. Upgrade YBA instances to the latest v2.18 or v2.20 using Replicated.

> 1. Migrate from the Replicated-based install of YBA to a YBA-Installer-based install of YBA using the [Migration Steps](../../../yugabyte-platform/install-yugabyte-platform/install-software/installer/#migrate-from-replicated).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Migrate from the Replicated-based install of YBA to a YBA Installer-based install of YBA using the [Migration Steps](../../../yugabyte-platform/install-yugabyte-platform/install-software/installer/#migrate-from-replicated).
```

## Details

> To guarantee interoperability, upgrading to a YBA version greater than or equal to latest v2.18 may require additional actions, such as upgrading the database cluster(s) version (also known as universes), or performing an upgrade to Docker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To guarantee interoperability, upgrading to a YBA version greater than or equal to latest v2.18 may require additional actions, such as first upgrading the database cluster(s) version (also known as universes), or performing an upgrade to Docker.
```

For more details, refer to [YBA version compatibility with YugabyteDB](../../../releases/yba-releases/#compatibility-with-yugabytedb).

{{< warning title="Important" >}}

> Please do not upgrade your YBA to a version that no longer supports your currently running YugabyteDB database versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not upgrade your YBA to a version that no longer supports your currently running YugabyteDB database versions.
```

{{< /warning >}}

If there are no version compatibility issues, YBA upgrades should be performed before any additional upgrades to the database.

> When performing step 1 of the mitigation, review the [prerequisites](../../../yugabyte-platform/install-yugabyte-platform/prerequisites/default) for Replicated based installs to avoid any potential upgrade issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When performing step 1 of the mitigation, review the [prerequisites](../../../yugabyte-platform/install-yugabyte-platform/prerequisites/default) for Replicated-based installs to avoid any potential upgrade issues.
```

### Recommended upgrade path (Ideal)

Yugabyte recommends upgrading YBA and YugabyteDB database to the latest v2.20 LTS.

### Acceptable upgrade path (Satisfactory)

> **Important releases considerations**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important YugabyteDB release considerations**
```

- v2.14 database releases reach End of Maintenance in July 2024, End of Life in January 2025.
- v2.16 database releases reach End of Life in June 2024.
- v2.18 database releases reach End of Life in November 2024.

For more details, refer to [Releases](../../ybdb-releases/#releases).

**Scenario 1**

> Consider you are running a YBA earlier than the latest v2.18 with a YuagbyteDB database earlier than the latest v2.14.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose you are running a YBA earlier than the latest v2.18, with universes running YuagbyteDB database earlier than the latest v2.14.
```

> Suppose you want to upgrade to YBA with the latest v2.18 or v2.20, and only upgrade database nodes on v2.14, do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to upgrade YBA to the latest v2.18 or v2.20, and only upgrade database nodes to v2.14, do the following:
```

1. Check Replicated [prerequisites](../../../yugabyte-platform/install-yugabyte-platform/prerequisites/default).

> 1. Upgrade YBA to the latest version of your current branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade YBA to the latest version of your current branch (using Replicated).
```

> 1. Upgrade YBA to the latest v2.18.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade YBA to the latest v2.18 (using Replicated).
```

1. Upgrade YugabyteDB database nodes to latest v2.14.
1. [Migrate YBA off Replicated](../../../yugabyte-platform/install-yugabyte-platform/install-software/installer/#migrate-from-replicated), to YBA Installer.
1. Plan the upgrade of database nodes prior to EOL in January 2025.

**Scenario 2**

> Consider you are running a YBA earlier than the latest v2.18 and a database at v2.14, v2.16, or v2.18.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose you are running a YBA earlier than the latest v2.18, with universes running YugabyteDB at v2.14, v2.16, or v2.18.
```

> Suppose you want to upgrade to YBA the latest v2.18 or 2.20, and leave your database on its current version, do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to upgrade YBA to the latest v2.18 or 2.20, and leave your database on its current version, do the following:
```

1. Check Replicated [prerequisites](../../../yugabyte-platform/install-yugabyte-platform/prerequisites/default).

> 1. Upgrade YBA to the latest version of your current branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade YBA to the latest version of your current branch (using Replicated).
```

> 1. Upgrade YBA to the latest v2.18 or v2.20.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade YBA to the latest v2.18 or v2.20 (using Replicated).
```

1. [Migrate YBA off Replicated](../../../yugabyte-platform/install-yugabyte-platform/install-software/installer/#migrate-from-replicated), to YBA Installer.
1. Plan the upgrade of database nodes prior to EOL for the respective versions. For more details, refer to [Releases](../../ybdb-releases/#releases).

### Minimum requirements (Sub-optimal)

> **Important release considerations**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important YugabyteDB release considerations**
```

- v2.14 database releases reach End of Maintenance in July 2024, End of Life in January 2025.
- v2.16 database releases reach End of Life in June 2024.
- v2.18 database releases reach End of Life in November 2024.
For more details, refer to [Releases](../../ybdb-releases/#releases).

**Scenario**

> Consider you are running YBA v2.14, and your universe or database nodes are on v2.12.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose you are running YBA v2.14, with universes running YugabyteDB nodes on v2.12.
```

> Suppose you want to upgrade to YBA the latest v2.18 or v2.20, and only upgrade your database to the latest v2.14, do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upgrade YBA to the latest v2.18 or v2.20, and only upgrade your database to the latest v2.14, do the following:
```

1. Check Replicated [prerequisites](../../../yugabyte-platform/install-yugabyte-platform/prerequisites/default).

> 1. Upgrade YBA to the latest v2.14.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade YBA to the latest v2.14 (using Replicated).
```

1. Upgrade YugabyteDB database to the latest v2.14.

> 1. Upgrade YBA to the latest v2.18 or v2.20.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade YBA to the latest v2.18 or v2.20 (using Replicated).
```
